00:00:00 Martín
Getting back to part one, phase one. As described in the PRD, it is the phase that I mandated. We needed to try the architecture itself this morning to ensure it works, at least in a simulated local-only environment, and it seems to work. But here's the thing: I have a couple of threads loose in my mind about everything we're doing. Yesterday, I had a very clear intention, and I still do, of developing a nice core system that is going to handle authentication, data, connections, asynchronous calls, synchronous calls. It's going to handle the AI if it exists and process messages.
00:00:58 Martín
Be them from WhatsApp, from Slack, from an email, from an API, whatever. Point is, this abstract core is supposedly what we develop today. Alright, at least in the local only version, but. Here's where my apprehensions start to come up. So number one. Um. What did we really build? You know, not in the context of my original idea. Brother, just what did we build? What exists now? What do we have concretely speaking? As far as I understand, we have a local only system. That is able to receive messages from a WhatsApp plugin powered by Bale.
00:01:57 Martín
And. It can auto detect if those messages are text or image or audio. As far as I understand, it handles these messages not in a synchronous way, but rather a convoluted, intentionally convoluted way. It receives the message and sends it to. A queue of some sort, and. The backend system is what decides what to do with that queue, and eventually it returns something. Sends it to the queue, and the queue sends it back to another plugin. Something like that. Point is, the system is ready to have a different plugin, say for example, uh a telegram plugin or an email plugin. You know it could work, and it will work the same way.
00:02:55 Martín
I think it handles asynchronous cases, so in the case that I have multiple clients. I will be able to using the very same instance of this system. The very same database and the same queue system. Everything. Those multi multiple clients who will still benefit. From fast. Responses by the system, fast processing times. All the while keeping their orders, you know. Actually. Actually handled, you know. So for example, if. If a client is offline and they send a message to the system. But during that process, they for example, I don't know their their.
00:03:53 Martín
Mobile data shut off like that. Then the system will send the message through the queue. And The Baileys plugin will handle that specific case. So that's all fine and dandy. But that was question number one. That was comprehension number one. What did we build exactly? I need you to tell me. Because I'm kind of losing track here. Question number two: what we built mostly around the happy path. Now the happy path is great for prototyping. But I quickly found that you have to program for all unhappy paths. If you don't program for all the unhappy paths you can think of, then the system is going to fail.
00:04:52 Martín
So you better make it fail before it fails you. The idea is to spend a lot of time and a lot of efforts into developing this core system. I will do it basically for free, because the idea is to then go out and find clients using different narratives. That will result in different personalizations for this system.
00:05:22 Martín
The clients should never know that I have a backend that is common for all of them. Right, they shouldn't care about that, but I will care because I won't have to reprogram. The same bullshit every time. I won't have to reprogram how the messaging plugins work or how the synchronization works or how the data managing works. Everything you know that, you get it. So here's the thing, how do we test What we built, what's the right approach? I know there are unit tests and and we could make a lot of unit tests because. AI is very fast at coding. We can make different kinds of integration tests. That's fine, and we will do it, But We need to find a more robust framework for how to test this core. All right, think about Uh, huge frameworks like.
00:06:21 Martín
Nest JS, you know, they have a robust testing suite. In fact, it is so robust. That, you could basically replicate the whole of NestJS if you just reverse engineered this software. Through the test, you know that's one way of looking at it. I'm not saying we should do just that. But they figured out a way to always keep their system in check. So we should be as rigorous in our own proprietary core system. Why is that you ask? Because obviously, we have to justify. Having our own in-house system, we needed to be maintainable. We needed to scale well. We needed to, you know, be quite stable. Very stable. In terms of development.
00:07:19 Martín
I usually code with AI, but AI is gonna go away for some time. Not completely, but as of twenty six, AI companies like Open AI, Google, Anthropic are losing cash. They are just losing money every day because right now their business model is to get a lot of users to sign up, subsidize all the cost and hope that you can raise the costs later once your users are already hooked. I'm hooked, but that still doesn't cover their expenses. So with that in mind, we need to make the system robust. Now we need to make the core and we need to make it as stable as we can possibly get it to be without spending a dime.
00:08:17 Martín
And we can achieve that, but I just want to highlight how important it is. For us to have a stable system. A core that I can routinely update without breaking anything else. Something I can update without disrupting my operations. Something I can update or maintain, without the need to be in a specific laptop with the specific repo cloned. I need to be able to deploy this system quickly. So I know we have a whole stack plans for that. We have Supabase and we have other tools, and that's great and all, but I need some reassurance. Of will those tools and languages that we have agreed upon in the PRD.
00:09:16 Martín
Actually, result in a stable system, right? This is a very important question right now because alongside testing. This stack choice is probably what's going to dictate the success of this system, all right? If I have a A strong enough core, then I can just focus on building the personalizations. I can build a personalization for myself first. And with that in mind, I want to move on to my next point. I lost track already. Which is how should my personalization look like. I think the core should remain um, lightweight. You know, or like we have it right now. We don't need to have a dedicated UI for it as part of the core system, or do we? Like, what is the best practice here? I know this is a relatively new way of selling software, but it also isn't.
00:10:14 Martín
So when it comes to this kind of model, the vertical software as a service two point oh. With microkernel, in that kind of model, is it A good practice to implement a UI, to implement an admin, an administration panel. That is part of the core system instead of a personalization. That is my biggest question because. I know I could develop a core UI very quickly that will allow me to have a complete overview of all my clients, what services are associated with them. API keys handling everything centralized, Like obviously because I am thinking I am going to have up to a hundred individual clients. So. So I need to be able to quickly.
00:11:13 Martín
Take a look at all of them or individually, change parameters, test stuff. All without having to go into their particular personalization layer. Unless it is a personalization layer related concern, obviously. That means, if a client reports problems receiving or sending messages through the system, or there's a problem with the AI that is processing the requests, or a problem with anything else that is actually built into the core. Then only then should I take a look at the core. I will first be able to detect this problem before the client even does. If I have this centralized system. That is great, I know, but we come back to my original question.
00:12:05 Martín
Do we need a dedicated UI built into the core, or should it be a personalization feature? Because you know, everything I'm describing is rather convoluted. Alright, and I have to. Come to terms with the fact that I want to build a system that is core plus personalization. And should this core be agnostic to How you want to manage your personalizations. Like speaking from good practices in coding. I don't know. I don't have the answer right now to how this Core should be managed, right? Again. Should it provide an interface for its own managing or should it delegate that managing? To a personalization layer that simply has access to the other personalization layers.
00:13:05 Martín
And the core system. That's the thing, and I think the answer. Will be found when we take a look at the particular stack that we have defined in the PRT, both for the local version and the Eventually posted version. So those are most of my concerns before we can actually move. Into deploying this system. In other words, I wanna I wanna deploy something that I have absolute guarantees about in terms of its robustness, of its quality. But also, I don't want to just deploy a backend that I have to interact with via CLI. And. I don't want to end up making a hundred different commits into master that will have to be deployed. And redeployed in this core system. I want to deploy it and have to minimally intervene.
00:14:02 Martín
Now I think we have covered most of that again with the stack we chose. But I'm not sure that once we pass on through the next phase, I won't be battling with different deploys of this system. But I won't have to make micro fixes and then wait 10 minutes for the production system to reload, only to find that there were two new problems.
00:14:32 Martín
That will cost twenty minutes in total, just in deploying time. I'm talking from experience here. So I want to be sure about that. I want to make sure that I waste as little time as possible maintaining this system from the ground up. That means the local validation must come first, always. The AI system that I am using to develop Jarvis, which is the name of my core system. The name of the AI IDE that I'm using is called Antigravity. Antigravity is working with the Kyros governance system to develop Jarvis. And Antigravity usually thinks that we are done, like if it ended the development of all the epics.
00:15:28 Martín
It will think it is done, even though the PRD specifically mandates that phase one is a reiterative process. Even though we placed all the bricks, we still have to agree on the design itself. We still had to agree on their placement, and even though you can technically navigate through all the rooms, you have to check for tectonic activity. You have to check all the details of the house. You have to make sure that the finishing touches are all there. That is going to be a house that will withstand generations and that can be expanded without breaking the core structure. And you know what would give me a lot of clarity.
00:16:27 Martín
A lot of clarity would be that we define a few use cases. That, when completed, if they can be completed, will constitute at least like 95% of the validation of phase one. All right, I'm not talking about implementing the two clients idea right now. Like. The AI that's gonna transcript. This audio into text is not gonna know what I'm talking about, but that's fine. The thing is. I want to make sure that I'm building the right thing. I don't want to waste my time. And I want to build something that lasts for me. Maybe I won't get rich off of this after all.
00:17:26 Martín
My model is going to be on one-on-one calls, one-on-one meetings. Clients need to think that they are getting a personalized system. In order to achieve that without having a ton of overhead, just making minimal personalizations. I'm talking minimal because I'm going to build the backend first. In that case, how do we make sure that the core is ready? And how do we manage it? How do we anticipate the needs that I will have once I start hosting this system? Once I start building plugins for it, once I start developing demos, once I go out into the world and start selling my creation.
00:18:23 Martín
I'm framing all of these as questions, but truly they are more of a declarative intention of exploration. So this whole recording is gonna be transcribed, and an AI is gonna read that transcript later and do something with it. Specifically, anti-gravity. I'm going to give this whole transcript to anti-gravity. And what I want Antigravity to do is not to quickly respond to my questions and call it a day and tell me, 'Hey, phase one is complete,' as it tends to do. What I want is for it to take into account everything that I've said and slowly, methodically, systematically attack and respond to everything that I have said. Many things that I have said probably are already solved within the PRD.
00:19:22 Martín
Fully versed into the system's agreed stack. A lot of the stack I am not familiar with or not at the depth that I would like. So it's very possible that I have complained or expressed worries about things that are already covered. But still, I want that reassurance in that case. And the rest of things are things that maybe are worth exploring. And A nt i- gravity tends to do this very funny thing where it has a hunch on What could be the best answer for you and just gives it to you. But I don't want any hunches. All right, I work through research. So. There are three categories of responses that I expect AntiGravity to give me. Number one, the kind of response that already can be answered.
00:20:20 Martín
With the information in the PRD or the documentation. Category two is the kind of question that should invite more exploration, philosophically speaking, before settling on an answer. This second kind of answer I expect is about me talking to the AI or me literally debating with it because some of my questions and concerns are not easy to answer, and I want to have clarity on them before we settle on anything else. And number three, the third kind of response that I will get from Antigravity once it receives this transcript is going to be that anti-gravity will have to list concepts or questions that we have to go out into the internet to seek answers for.
00:21:17 Martín
It is not safe to depend on the AI's training data for answering some of my questions or some of my concerns. What is safe is going out into the internet and looking for the information ourselves. That is especially relating to how I want to monitor this system and manage it. How much to parametrize, all that for this specific context. I don't wanna fall into the same pits that many other entrepreneurs may have fallen into while building systems like this. If there exists information that will help answer some of my concerns, then we should go out and look for it.
00:22:16 Martín
That's been it.